---
layout: post
title: "convo"
tldr: "dark places"
tags: [college, rage, conversation, posterous]
---
ME : interesting. the one thing i've learnt is that college admissions is dark ugly  
you're amazingly qualified but you know that it really is a luck game sometimes  

YOu : lolol so very dark and ugly  
lost a bit of faith in the system  

i mean i don't see any bright stars tbh...

LOL 8 applied to columbia, 8 failed  
srsly shove their recommendations up their ass  

but for them it's like doing vc  
as long as 1/2 get into a really good school, they think it's justified  

yah but you waste everybody else's time  
idk  
shouldn't it be more like grooming 1/2 to really good school, rather than telling 10 to apply with 0.2% chance and wait for lottery  
i mean how can you explain why so many people still pay the lottery then?

it's because the potential reward is so great that it's 'worth' it  
incentive is an interesting thing  
to say the same for you  
your mom started grooming you when you were 3 to go into a good college  
that was also a 1/million chance

i suppose  
people like xxxxx ruin my faith in the system   
ah oh well  
i suppose there are thousands of such people in the collegiate system  
i know.  

sth i also learned this year is that sometimes relationships are a lot more important than ability  
the world's pretty disgusting

interesting, from intern hunting?/

you would want the world to be meritocratic, so everyone is sorted by ability  
so even if you lost out, you were ok with it because everyone who got better things than you were better than you  
but there's no 'function' to judge every candidate/applicant by  
the admission council just uses a lot of very vague gut feelings, which is terrible but again, do you have a better suggestion?  
to go a little philosophcal for a bit  
we live in a 3d world, but for most cases, we live in a 2d world since it's pretty difficult for us to go up  
imagine you live in a grid  
so the people who are in the four squares next to you will get a lot more interaction with you  
you can apply this to almost anything  
you can also say you got into a good school because you were in a closer square than perhaps someone who was a genius living in mongolia  

fair  
ah i dont know what to think  
on one hand, still feeling super lucky and blessed that i got in seeing how many qualified others were rejected by school  
on the other, people like xxxx, xxxx, oh yes granddaughter of xxxx, shit grades, make me so sad  
meh just thought i'd share  

that stuff only gets worse when you grow up. haha. think of paul allen, gates roommate, becomes billionaire because he happened to know the right person at the right time. haha  

true i guess. it felt 'right' that connections made a difference in the business world; but once the same rules apply to sth so immediate, it's harder to believe i gess  

that's a fair point i guess. there's a difference between serendipity/luck and connections.  
we all wish that wasn't the case. but in the absence of a better solution, you can only aceppt it. parts of life are out of your control. just control the parts you can.
