---
layout: post
title: "remarks at the end of the semester"
description: ""
category: 
tags: []
---

We're at the end of another semester already.
Handed in my 29th problem set of the semester earlier today. The last one is due on Friday.

Just a number of observations I've made this semester:
 * I've worked extremely hard this semester
 * This semester, my life has mostly consisted of me finishing problem sets and sleeping.

People have commented on it. Believe it or not, it has been going on in the back of my head this whole semester. Why I'm working so hard? Here's sort of what I've got now.

The very first question is why do? why do anything?
We don't have to at all, infact. By and large, in most of today's societies, there is enough
of a safety net to keep us alive.
But the instrinsic motivation to do things exists in us because it is evolutionarily advantageous. We are alive because all of our ancestors are the ones who chose to go out and find food, to eat, to live and to survive. We are the descendants of the people of the people who wanted to live the most. Of anything, the trait to do the things needed to surivive get more and more reinforced every generation.

And then comes the question of purpose, right?
What is the purpose of it all? None really if you ask me.
But at the same time consider this, humans are the only living species who try to reason our why they are alive. For all the universe cares (if it cared at all), we are just more particles, we don't behave deterministically. We just do things.

[1]: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=C9thJm7_H68 

First you have to believe.
But if you accept both things above and still are wondering for a reason, here's another one.Because you are in the position to do so. For what you are about to do, thinking about doing, you are in a position to do it. [This][1] Will Smith interview sums up this positive gungho attitude on life pretty nicely.

Another thing is also weird. Supposing you don't do something crazy and nuts, I think we often much less regret about things we have done than things we haven't done. This is a very empirically based observation I've made and could be completely untrue. Perhaps  we are simply much better at rationalizing things we did versus things we didn't do, which I suppose is because we are much better at hypothesizing about the amazing universe it would have been IF ONLY we had done something, versus the universe that would have been IF WE HADN'T. 

For the most part, we don't really choose what we end up doing. That's a fact of life that you gradually have to accept once you grow older. It's because there are a lot of things at play: society, trends, hypes, misguided beliefs, stereotypes, opportunities.

[2]: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8k2AbqTBxao

This may seem a little contrary to the Will Smith video I just showed you above. This is my explanation. 21st century people, especially [North Americans][2] , I've come to realize, really enjoy the idea of being able to change your lives. Self help books, how-tos, DIYs are prevalent throughout society and popular culture. The doctrine that life is improvable is ingrained within the people. Will Smith is also of course one of the most successful actors in the world. Whether what he says is a result of his success or the reason of his success, no one including himself will know. These concepts benefit different people and I am one of those.

[3]: http://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_detailpage&v=8bWlTZZN3DY

On a related note, there's also something about ability right, that you do or can't do something because you dont' have the intrinsic talent biological functions to perform them. This is where the concept of being able to improve can help certain people. It also allows us to dispel certain groups of people dispel [stereotypes that they had about themselves][3]. 

Finally, there's opporunity, the infamous black box you can't look into and don't realize you're in. Some may argue this is just what we attribute blame to when we don't succeed. It's true but Malcolm Gladwell in his book Outsiders makes his claim about how environmental opportunities have dramatic effects. But I want to emphasize a point, opportunity isn't really a black box, at least I don't think so. The world is still controlled by humans and humans love the story of an underdog. They like to bet on unprobable prospects and that's why I think opporunity is also something you can leverage.

If you go to college, you already have an opporunity that many people in the world don't have. Our society has decided, just for the pure sake of intellectual advancement, a person will have have four years worth of time to pursue any subject of his choice to commit his studies.So you have the opportunity. If it's someone who can do it, it's you. 

So now we are reaching the crux of the question: how hard do you work? how many times do you try? How much do you sacrifice before it isn't worth it. Frankly, I don't have an answer and I don't think there is a universal answer. There are always numerous valid reasons for why you should do something and why you shouldn't provided they are sufficiently motivated. I think each person has to decide for him or herself. I don't think there is necessarily a right course of action. There's just multiple choices and one to be made.

For me, it's this. Pushing myself through all my classes just comes down to a matter of principle. I signed up for something. Regardless of how poorly I do, regardless of how long it takes, it's myduty as student to finish something I've signed up for. The thing that drives me I think is not intellectual curiousity as much as a sense of responsibility. Combine that with a stubborn sense of perseverance and you have me. To my own amazement, I can push myself extremely hard. 

What happens for me after this? What happens after school? What happens when all of those responsibilities aren't rigid anymore. Why try so hard? What is the right balance? Do you need to aim to be the best in order to do something? 

I think that's a legitimate question and I don't think there's a good answer. It's lazy and unproductive to just label this as a question you have to figure out for yourself. But it is.
Think of all the non-#1's in the world, the singers on youtube, the artists on deviant art. What do they think? If you're only in it to be best, then good luck. But realistically, how many of us will become the best at what we do. 

You to accept being bad at what you do everyday, and probably what you enjoy doing everyday. 
You have to be ok with being bad at your job.
There's always someone better.

Similarly, how do you balance the thought of being not good enough and being good enough when need be.
What is the healthy mix of confidence and humility?

Thank you for reading and making it here. I hope this discourse was helpful.
Comments please. Nothing is more encouraging then another voice in this chaotic cybersphere. 

