---
layout: post
title: "your place in the world"
description: ""
category: 
tags: [cs, theory of knowledge, math, algorithms]
---

Some notes on math and computer science:
feel free to refute me:

From my theoretical computer science class, all problems are essentially optimization or decision problems.
Far too often, algorithms and computer science are discussed together as if they can't live without
each other. But that is false. 
Algorithms are simply step by step instruction manuals. Any person who can understand the instructions
can replace a computer as well. But we use computers instead of humans because computers make a lot fewer
mistakes, can work infinitely long hours and their speed of computation is much faster.
Computers and algorithms are so often discussed together but that's the heart of automation. All of computer science
is essentially concerned about automating some task that we can create a series of instructions that can be
performed and performed quickly by a computer. 

Algorithms are only as smart as the people who write them. An algorithm doesn't gain you any understanding
into the problem. The insight must occur before the algorithm is written and that's the heart of it. 
An algorithm doesn't improve until someone discovers a key insight.

This is all in constrat to mathematics.
Mathematics on the other hand is the study of equating identities and symbols. 
Every step of mathematics, of equating something to another thing is a step of insight.

Think about it a little more. Remove all the mathematical things you see in algorithms and what are you
left with. You are basically only allowed to assign pieces of memory to specific values, you can
move around pieces of memory, you can print out the value at that memory location, but that's it. You
can't even do sorting because that requires a mathematical operator.
I'm not saying computer science is less worthy or anything but what I'm saying is that the insight is always 
being generated by math and not by computer science. The two are inextricably tied together. 

[1]: http://www.evanmiller.org/mathematical-hacker.html 

I'm probably a little biased after reading [this article about the pitfalls of lambda calculus][1] thinking.
And I did just come out of an applied math exam which I don't think I did too well on and I'm trying
to convince myself to take more pure math classes. 

