---
layout: post
title: resume design
---

the content of my resume is mostly finalized.  
i just have to work out the visual presentation of the cv.  
here are some things i tried.

keep in mind these are highly specific to my cv and also i'm using latex for this.  
send me an email if you want to know what package I used.

* font - changing to the default sans-serif family makes all the letters narrower
* bullets - from afar, the bullets really can't be seen. it looks nice up close but too small
from afar.

[small-bullet]: http://www.latex-community.org/forum/viewtopic.php?f=46&t=10936
Apparently, there was some other person who had [this problem][small-bullet] and recommended
the use of \scriptstyle\bullet. Very nice

text - there's a lot of information on my resume right now. probably should prune it.  
It's all about the bullet points. Conveying the impact and the scale of your work in as
few words as possible. (I suppose brevity is more important than detail in this scenario)

white spacing is important if you can afford it. it makes for much better aesthetics
There is a blance between white space and not enough information.  
but the rule of thumb is less is more

[owl-resume]: http://owl.english.purdue.edu/owl/resource/631/1/
The tips from [owl][owl-resume] is the quadrant test, so balanced white space,
fonts, consistent formatting, and 20-second test

[mc-resume]: http://managementconsulted.com/consulting-resumes/how-to-write-a-management-consulting-and-business-consulting-resume/#
The tips from [managementconsulted.com][mc-resume] are more about content. Focus on contributions


