---
layout: post
title: "passion"
tldr: "How to set your own schedule to maximize your motivation, willpower management to accomplish difficult things
tags: [motivation, passion, time management, scheduling]
---

[1]: http://calnewport.com/blog/2009/02/16/the-danger-of-deep-procratination/
[2]: http://calnewport.com/blog/2010/04/29/the-upside-of-deep-procrastination/
[3]: http://calnewport.com/blog/2011/07/15/how-to-cure-deep-procrastination/

I've realized that my efficiency in doing work is related to my motivtion and the pressure to complete the work. The key in being efficient all the time is willpower management. To not use up all your willpower at one go, but space it out throughout a regular period until you have replenished all of that willpower through resting, rewarding yourself or self-growth.

Sometimes I get the feeling at the end of the night that I don't have it inside me anymore. I can't keep going. I get that at the end of day, end of the week, end of the semester, and probably end of my life.

But you have to understand that you can decouple your motivation from your abilities. Motivation probably plays a larger part in determining how well you will do, prepare.

Just like new things compared to old ones, things that are new just run more effortlessly. And it isn't necessarily because old things are of lower quality. There's just always a little bit more inertia to overcome for old things. We are obviously more motivated in the morning, at the beginning of the week, beginning of the semester than we usually are. And that's where willpower management comes on. The most effective people are the ones who can treat every day, every week the same, the same as the very first day of the very first week.

That comes from a combination of setting up yourself to succeed with a good schedule and also passion and also curing deep procrastination. Cal Newport posts: [1][1] [2][2] [3][3]
I've talked about regularity being necessary to becoming good at something. Passion is for a specific subject your ableness to reapproach that subject with the same motivation and determination as you did on the first day of the first week.

The last important thing is being able to measure the outcomes. As soon as you reach a certain age and make your own life decisions, there aren't many people who can help you. You can either look for a mentor, but more often than not, you're going to have to decide your own set of goals. You have to be able to measure them. 

And also, always reflect, always try to think of a better way to do something. This is where it becomes important to also expand your horizons and try to learn from others.



