---
layout: post
title: "The Unknown"
---

I want you to think for a moment about the guarantees you live for granted.

We all live under the illusion of guarantee that tomorrow we will wake up and the world will be mostly the same.
Our lives, our health will mostly be the same as they were yesterday.

This is the guarantee we take for granted. But this is the guarantee we need so that we can plan our lives, so that we can make plans for tomorrow and not fear that they won't happen.

There's always some danger in living. There's always the 0.0001% that a bullet is going to fly through the window and kill you, but our brains ignores these so we can live some life.

There's two things to recognnize here: 
One is that paranoia stems from the inability to single out those marginal probabilities.

And the second is what happens when we actually wake up and find ourselves in the universe of that 0.0001%, that we have been diagnosed with terminal cancer, that we were just in a car crash and will be quadraplegic for the rest of our lives. 

We lose all sense of direction, paralyzed not by fear, but simply by not knowing what to do, our lives being completely disrupted and overturned.

(Humans are paralyzed by having too many choices. That's why we always to take little steps, to reduce the number of choices. Part of learning and maturing is knowing how to become better and better at this, streamlining decisions, but of course by sacrificing creativity)

It's interesting to note that humans live before they think about why they live the way they do. This is due to evolution, the man who made sure he came up with a reason why he should hunt before he did died way more often than the man who just hunted and had food to survive.

So we do, we must live today and the next day, by assuming that tomorrow will be normal.
