---
layout: post
title: "amalgam of thoughts"
---

# teaching

It's hard to teach effectively. When you're in a position to teach, you obviously know more than the subject. But choosing how to present the piece of the knowledge your subject DETERMINES whether you are good at teaching or not.

I thought about conflating them but on second thought. I think there's 2 axis in the world of teaching. One axis is structure. The other axis is the gap in knowledge between the teacher and the student.

## x-axis: structure

It's easy to teach out of a curriculum in a classroom settings because you explicitly know what the students are expected to learn and what they know.Teaching out of a curriculum and teaching effectively out of a curriculum are again different things.

It's not easy to teach without a curriculum. Structure helps  because repetition reinforces learning. It gets pretty confusing if you're going all over the place.

## y-axis: gap in knowledge

It's easy to teach your peers (like when you're explaining a homework problem to someone else), who are on the same footing as you. You have mostly the same understanding of the body of knowledge.

It gets progressively harder when there is a gap between what you know and what the other person knows. Because the way you understand something like multiplication may be based on something (like addition) that the other person doesn't. You may say it's preposperous to teach multiplication without addition. But is it?
Teaching addition first just makes the presentation much more natural. But when you move onto other things, the difference it makes becomes a lot more subtle.

It's easy to just blurt out additional information to make everything a little more complicated to make everything work. It's hard to dumb it down and find the minimal amount to make it a self-contained body of knowledge

# philosophy of language

Logic is not intuitive to humans. I know it because I'm learning it right now. 
Just having symbols on the board doesn't mean anything until you internalize into the language you think in, which brings back another question which many have asked.

Is language necessary for understanding. Some have claimed that our faculty for thinking comes from our ability to understand and manipulate languages.

Maybe you haven't, but I've found it almost always easier for someone to explain something to me rather than reading it. Spoken language allows in particular for stresses for the important parts of the sentence to come through. One could even say reading is just the skill of inserting all the right stresses into a piece of text.
