---
layout: post
title: "Hans"
tags:
- entrepreneurship
- med-international
- political science
- deep
---

[1]: http://www.medinternational-us.org/
Just want to do a shout out to my friends Jayson and Hans who are doing some awesome work with [Med International][1]. They are some of the most thoughtful and intelligent people I know. They are trying to change the improve Zanzibar's health system by approaching in a very systematic and technical way and not just blindly matching needs. Give them some of your love as well.

Had dinner with Hans last night where we had a really good conversation so I wanted to crudely paraphrase some things he said.

1. Back in agricultural society, land owners need workders. So they pay them just enough to keep them alive. That was the extent of doing good.
2. During the industrial revolution, we had a complete breakdown of this. So there was a legislative pushback. Passed laws to limit the age of workers, health laws. 

History of doing good

1. Doing good was originally the complete responsibility of the state. 
2. However, it turns out that we need something more than that. So NGO's popped up and started doing good
3. At some point, some people realized that they didn't have to rely on the state anymore. They could start their own businesses to do good as well.
4. Finally, we have impact investment where we have the emergence of traditional businesses being forced to examine their own social outcomes

Another interesting anecdote he gave me was about the Clinton Foundation and about Ashoka fellows.

During the 90's, HIV anti-viral drugs were exorbitantly priced. So the clinton foundation brought together all the developing countries who had a huge depend for these drugs into a pact and made the pharmaceutical companies slash their prices in exchange for the promised demand from all of these countries. It was a huge success but they received criticism for applying a free-market solution to a social problem. They basically said we know that but we're not trying to force-fit every problem with a free-market solution.

Secondly Ashoka fellows are apparently like the Morgan Stanley performers in the social entrepreneurship world. And the study on them is that they are just basically high preforming entrepreneurs who would have been successful in any field. They are relentlessly resourceful.

So here's a question I have:
Can all social problems be solved by free-market solutions? Doesn't the notion of doing good and giving something to everybody fundamentally contradict with the notion of free market capitalism?

In the ideal world, rebalancing should be built into the system, but it isn't.
So just by acknolwedging we need to make the effort of redistributing, you're saying the system hasn't done its job.
But then, do you still do something about it?
