---
layout: post
title: "time"
tldr: "man's struggle with time and my personal experience"
tags: [time, life, advice]
---

I often find myself moving along the axis of time without pausing for thought. By that I mean the mentality that I wish today would pass by faster so that an event I'm looking forward to in the future would come faster. I remember used to thinking that as long as I could make it pass today, tomorrow will be closer to whatever I'm looking forward to. I think that was true for everyone in middle or high school. We lived from one school holiday to the next. There's not much to look forward to in middle school except the vacations. 

But the structure of life changes as we go from high school to college to employment. Semesters are 14 weeks long in college, there's only one full week of break during the semester. Usually, we get one week-long break in between the semester and a summer job. Even now in college, I often feel like I'm surviving from weekend to weekend. And once we join the work force, we'll have maybe two or three weeks of vacation a year. As we grow up, we slowly shift from work broken up by many breaks, to longer stretches of work with no break.

I think our struggle with time is one of the essential questions of existence. But perhaps for the first time in my life, I'm not looking forward to anything in the future anymore. I'm reminiscing for the first time. It has to do with the realization that we are at the peaks of our lives. I don't like to think like this but it is good to remind myself, that at least physically, we are at the peak of our lives. We have more energy than we ever will in our lives and that the time to make memories is now. I was on my old blog today and found several interesting posts written by myself a number of years ago.

[1]: http://thismyonelife.wordpress.com/2009/01/30/artifically-going-back-to-where-you-came-form/
[2]: http://thismyonelife.wordpress.com/2008/06/18/the-brain-that-degrades/
[3]: http://thismyonelife.wordpress.com/2010/02/16/on-the-main-street/

1. [artificially going back to where you came from]
2. [the brain that degrades]
3. [on the main street]

It's interesting to look at myself through the lenses of time. I agree with everything that's said but this time I'm looking from the opposite direction, in particular, [this post about maturity and rule breaking][2]. In the post, I simply say that being mature is about following rules. I was on the phone with my parents yesterday. my mom was just updating me on the latest family gossip and she was talking about how one of my older cousins who was 29, was considering marriage and becoming a father. That's 8 years between me and him. I can't imagine myself doing that in 9 years. (At the same time, I couldn't have imagined myself being here 9 years ago). Being mature is about having a good track record. Years of having a steady job, years of savings, years of a steady girlfriend. We know what the ingredients of maturity are. It's really not that complicated. The difficulty lies in execution, in having that good track record. 

To be honest, that does sound daunting. I'm not looking forward to that (at all). What do we do when you don't want to look forward, we look back. Memories are just pieces of time that you have stored away. 

I'm going to use an analogy for life here. Life is like running in a big group but there's no prize for coming first, but you can't stop either. Everyone's running at the same speed. It's different from running for fitness though.  When we're jogging, it's about making it to the finish line in the shortest period of time, pushing yourself. This is different. If you only focus on the finish line in life, then you're only looking forward to your death. Instead, you need to learn how to run without panting, how to make life look easy, how to look at everything everyone around us while we run. And what does it mean to look back and see those different distance markers? the mark where you fell down, the mark where you had your first kiss? What do memories mean? I quote this from a collection of essays I deeply enjoy called 周国平语录

年轻人没有什么可以回忆，于是就展望。老年人没有什么可展望，于是就回忆

It means that when you are young, you don't have anything to reminisce about, so you look ahead. But when you're old and having nothing to look forward to, you reminisce. I'm in the middle now, slowly transitioning from the former to the latter. It's not that I have nothing to look forward to anymore. It's that I have to be aware that some of the most long-lasting memories I will make will be here and now.

The thing to get out of this is really one's attitude towards life/time. The only way to appreciate the passage of time is by being aware of it. It's called mindfulness. Nothing will create more long-lasting memories than you realizing that memories are being made. Sometimes technology helps in capturing the moment. but I don't think capturing the moment is so much capturing what happened, as opposed to capturing what you felt. I think the most memorable moments in one's life are the ones that stirred your hearts the most, which is way they tend to be the most out of the ordinary experiences. 

[4]: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zd2sRC3K9Hs

What is the role of technology in this? We can think of these recording devices as memory captuerers. We originally had voice and now we have image. Soon we will have 360 videos and maybe smell and touch too. By trying so hard to capture the memory with a picture/video, we've destroyed the experience itself. I think Louis CK sums it up the best in this [segment][4]. But there's a lot of these one picture a day, one second of video a day movements that I do appreciate. It's not so much about capturing the moment as opposed to creating a ritual of realizing 'Oh that's today's memory right there'. Memories are all about capturing a moment in time, something your heart felt. 

Time does fly by, relentlessly so. Being aware of how fast it flies is sometimes difficult because everyone is in such a hurry to go somewhere all the time. So it's hard to be aware on your own. Inserting artificial points of the day where we remove ourselves from the moment and acknowledge a moment is perhaps we should all start doing.


