---
layout: post
title: "HN 2013 03 03"
tldr: "links on comp sci's effect on the economy, the debate of comp sci as a science and programming being not right for everyone"
tags: [cs, HN, economy, programming, jobs, science, epistemology, economics]
---

[1]: http://thoughtinfection.wordpress.com/2013/03/03/the-jobs-are-never-coming-back/

[jobs are never coming back][1]
* There is no natural, physical, economic or legal law which states that economic growth creates more jobs.
* If there is not enough work to go around, then we can take measures to share the work more equally. 
* How are we going to structure a society that needs radically less human labour?
* We are headed towards untold abundance with little need for actual human labor. 
* People needing to work less and having greater and cheaper access to goods is a great thing.

[2]: http://cacm.acm.org/magazines/2013/1/158757-computer-science-is-not-a-science/fulltext
[comp sci is not a science][2]

* A true science like physics or chemistry studies some aspect of physical reality. It is not concerned with how to build things; that is the province of engineering. 
* What we mislabel as computer science would more aptly be named "computology"—the study of computational processes and the means by which they can be realized. Its components can broadly be grouped into three interdependent areas: software engineering, hardware engineering, and the mathematics of computation.


[3]: http://symbo1ics.com/blog/?p=1615
[programming is not for every body][3]
* No. Programming jobs are often not “clock in, clock out” jobs. There is an underlying expectation to work longer hours to get things done. And it never stops, because the work is never ending. There’s always some feature to add or some bug to fix. There will always be a reason for you to have to stay an extra hour or two.
* Quite simply, programming is not for everyone. It is not an absolutely fun and delightful task as it’s portrayed to be in videos like the aforementioned or movies like “The Social Network”. It is rarely an invigorating social activity. A lot of time, it’s sitting in front of a computer screen, looking at a colorful text document, and thinking, and thinking, and typing, getting angry, and wondering why the hell you’re living a life sitting down.
* I don’t want to disparage the idea of someone new starting to learn programming. It can be an empowering thing. But, for me, it’s not something I picked up and learned to do over a weekend, or two weekends, or 52 weekends. It is something I tried hard at, and ended up neglecting other things in life to be able to learn it. It is hard to tell my brother, or anyone, that the fruit of learning a little bit of programming is the way it might change the way you think—not the fame and fortune—and I don’t think this simple thing is a good enough motivation for most people.
