---
layout: post
title: "want"
tldr: "Expectation management. How we change our expectations to prevent ourselves from insanity. And how the act of expectation management defines who we are as people"
tags: [expectation, want, desire, personality, drive, values]
---

you want what you can't get.

not exactly but pretty close. there's a pre-condition. you have to have had come close to getting it. you don't dream about getting a specific job on a daily basis. but if you ever come close enough, but have it slip through your fingers as you tried to grab hold of it, that only feeds your desire.

[happiness]: http://thismyonelife.wordpress.com/2011/06/14/two-books-on-the-subway/

as we grow older, we just learn to condition ourselves to say something like 'it was fate. it was meant to be' or 'i don't actually want it that much. it's good that it didn't happen', which is essential for reverting back to an equilibrium state of happiness (or else your life just becomes a tail spin when one thing in your life fucks up and reason why young overachievers have breakdowns). This is one of the ideas from Daniel Gilbert's [stumbling on happiness][happiness]. but it's also equally essential to determine at which point we turn on that defence mechanism. i think that's what constitute our values, how much we value something will determine how much effort we put in until we give up and start consoling ourselves. it also constitute our personalities, some people are simply born more driven, which is debatable since you always see in romcoms the 'never-achieved-anything-in-his-life' boy do everything for a girl when he realizes he fucked up and recalls the girl saying 'you're the one who is too insecure to let anyone into your heart.' or 'you're the one whose afraid of trying, of releasing the potential you have inside you. 


